The Joe Rogan experience. How's I, uh,
I had my sunglasses on top of my hat and looked for them for 10 minutes before I
was looking at my phone the other day. I'm like,
I'm with my I'm with my son and I'm looking for my phone. And I'm like,
where the is my phone? Where the is it? He's he's next to me.
I'm on my phone playing a game. Oh, right next to me, statue a phone up.
Yeah. Those kids love those God phone and downloaded the game for him. Oh,
you forgot? Yeah. Getting old. Yeah. He was playing a sniper game and I said,
you're not allowed to play that at all.
And then I saw how cool it was and I ended up planet. Whoa.
You try to keep him from violent games. I do. But it's a,
it's like telling a tree not to blow in the wind. It's interesting.
Dakota Meyer. Who's a, you know, decorated veteran and you know,
medal of honor, one of the very few would ever when it was alive. Yeah.
He thinks that video games and violent video games,
desensitize people. Now, when someone like that,
who's open with the struggles with PTSD, share, killed a man with a rock. Okay.
Tell me the story about, he was in a fist fight with a guy, you know,
in war with the enemy and picked up a rock and beat his brains in
Jesus. This guy is telling you that video games can desensitize you.
I'm going to listen. Yeah, I am. I'm going to listen to him. I am too.
He's you know, he understands. Yeah.
You certainly get very good at these kids who have the guns, but it also,
for some people that don't have any tendency towards violence like you or me or
Jamie or anybody else that we know that's fine and healthy.
They're not going to make you more likely to go shoot people. And that's a fact.
Yeah. That's the thing it's like, are you saying that you playing red,
dead redemption is going to make you want to go out and shoot people? No,
it's not going to have any effect on you as at all,
but will it have an effect on minors?
I think there are a couple of things going on. One is I think they're addictive.
Oh yeah. I've seen that with my own eyes, with my children. They're addictive.
And when you, and when you take the game away, they exhibit withdrawal.
They freak the out, man. Come on, turn one more game. Yeah. Genius.
Crazy. They stomped the ground. I know. And then, um,
and then also I think when you play video games,
you can get so addicted that you will isolate and you'll play those games all
day. Oh, what's that? What's that do to your social interaction?
What's that do to your body? Should you be doing a sport?
What's that do to you later on? Can you get a girl?
But when you've been sitting in front of it, there,
lots of things that we don't know. I mean, do they lend,
did do video games when you play them on that level,
do they retard your social skills and your, you know, I mean,
there's a lot of considerations. Well,
I'm also in favor of you doing anything you want.
If there's some people that would make the same argument about someone who's
addicted to reading. Sure. There's a lot of people that are in their head,
just reading novels. But yeah,
but those arguments word you against before video games,
you just don't hear it anymore because you just hear the more accelerated
version.
What it is is basically an engaging human co creation and engaging human
creation. That's designed to captivate your attention,
whether it's a novel or a film or anything, like things are designed.
That's what art is in a lot of ways.
And you go to an art gallery and you stare at someone's work.
It's like some human creation that captivates your attention and it gets you
locked in. And we see a really beautiful piece. Like we were in Italy and, uh,
we were in Florence and we went to the same ancient, um, ancient church.
And they had this beautiful works of art on the wall.
And they're just fascinating, fascinating stuff.
And you try to picture like the people that painted this a thousand years ago
and what life was like, and you're looking at the intricacies of these dresses,
like that's an engaging human creation that captivates your attention. We just,
we have merit in that kind of engaging captivated piece of art.
We, we have put merit in that,
but we don't put merit in video games for some reason.
It's almost like it's too engaging. It's too much. It's too captivated.
It's too. It's an interesting question. Why, why not? You know,
cause we know it's detrimental.
We inherently know that you're going to waste giant chunks of your life.
Unless you're someone who liked got a trust fund, you never have to work again.
You got $10 million in the bank and you can just chill forever and you want to
play video games all day. I'm like, all right, look, if you w I mean,
I don't know what to tell you. You don't have. Yeah. But what is it?
Something like Picasso's where Anka or, you know, that, that painting of, uh,
when Spain was bombed by the Luftwaffe, um,
before world war II and to bring that up because it's a kind of a haunting
painting, but why does that,
why is that still something that's considered a masterpiece?
And then like you said, there's like these incredible images,
there's incredible imagery and what we can do with an iPad. Well,
it's all the same thing in some way, it's a human creation.
But the thing about these digital human creations is they have this alien,
like cold feel to them. Like there's something about digital things,
even if they're spectacular, like there's no emotion in this thing,
this thing is a creation. It's a one and a zero it's it's it's computer.
Whereas like, if you're just reading novels all day,
like if you're that person that just the world, I'm going to go in my house.
I'm gonna shut the door. I'm going to light a candle.
I'm going to sit there and I'm going to read novels all day.
I have $10 million in the bank that I got from my trust fund.
I just like reading. Noah would say, you're a loser. Like what does Brian do?
He's amazing. You know, he got his trust fund and then said,
I want to educate myself. I just want to read.
And he just reads all the great works.
And he sits at home all day and just reads. It's amazing. Yeah.
But that is somehow more intriguing because what you're doing is,
is developing and expanding your understanding.
And so when you do that,
what that means is you're someone who is worth speaking to you might have some
secrets and some understanding that I can use.
So when you talk to somebody who's really gone down that rabbit hole,
like Joseph Campbell,
who read all the philosophers and everybody who influenced them, you want to,
you want to hear what he has to say,
because he's organized his brain and his thoughts in a way that might shed some
light on the things that are confusing to you that are, you know,
that are depressing or that are scaring you or whatever.
And you do need leaders like that.
The leaders of thought that can put things into perspective, you know,
that can kind of tell you why there's a difference between say Picasso and this
other artist. I don't know. No. Yeah, for sure. Yeah, for sure.
But you also need people that know how to play the out of a video game.
The thing is those people don't get any credit.
When you see these kids today that are winning these video game tournaments and
winning a million dollars. And their parents told them to not play games.
Meanwhile, the dad works at iHub like, Hey. You know,
these guys are making real money from his stupid game that you told him to never
play. And they're filling like arenas crazy.
This is where the world goes.
The world goes to the most engaging creation that human beings have that locks
in other people's attention.
And the most engaging creations for young people are these video games. Yeah.
They're just group efforts. They're giant group corporate efforts, whether it's,
you know, a grand theft auto or the new doom, when's that new doom coming out.
But I feel like doom. And I do think there's a difference.
I do think that when you're really good at a video game,
there's, there is an addictive quality to it. Yes.
You're really good at doing this thing. Right. But at the end of the day,
it's a game, right.
And that game is somewhat masturbatory that game.
I don't know that when you really get good at Fort, not Knight or doom,
I don't know if that game in any way expands
your understanding or your ability to contribute to the larger
conversation. Okay. But I'm just saying, does Snoke,
uh, so is that the strategy game? No. How dare you? What is it? What,
no. Chess. Chess is a good one, but, well, no,
there's a reason why I said snugger. Yeah.
The reason why I said snookers cause you're executing, you're actually doing,
you have to do,
you have to keep it together and you have to physically execute a move.
It's a giant pool table that they played in England and they play with red balls
and blue balls and pink balls and black balls. And I don't know,
I don't understand the game. I've watched it a bunch. Yeah. But, uh,
there's these people that play it and you know, it's less popular.
Now. One of the guys, one of the bedtime guys got busted. He got busted.
I'm doing a fixed game. Like someone,
someone paid them off to lose and he agreed to do it for a certain amount of
money.
But the thing is that a game like that is well respected because someone has to
execute. It's not just thinking you have to ask to kill off the shot. Yes.
It's a skill. Yeah. And also people love to watch it. Who play snooker.
Probably not me, but people will know the difference. Right. A video game.
You have to execute as well.
But it doesn't seem like you're doing it because you're not physically,
you just moving your hands around and moving a keyboard.
And it doesn't seem like it's as skillful, but it is. Yeah.
That's a really interesting question. I don't know.
You're you're asking a really interesting question. I think so,
because what they are doing is they're providing entertainment for people,
just like a great pool player. Right? Right. So when you watch pool,
you're doing it for stakes. You're doing it for money,
but you're also watching these people who have mastered this insane geometry.
What? We respect some versions of that. Like golf. Yeah. We respect golf. Yeah.
You want some land and also the, the, the money that's available.
That's why we don't respect bowling. Yeah. If someone's a good bowler,
like congratulate, pat them on the head. Good for you. Good for you.
Nobody cares. But if you're one of the best golf players of all time,
you know, that golfer is going to make millions and millions of dollars a year.
But that guy is a baller. He's a golfer.
And he's at the top of the food chain when it comes to any of those skills
require you to master yourself and in many ways. Oh yeah, sure.
But the thing is that the video games, it seems like it's,
it's happening in a digital realm. And because of that,
it's not taken as seriously. Even if you found out they made more money,
like when you find out someone's a successful video game player,
there's a certain party. You'll be like, oh,
why are you wasting your time with that? Even if you go,
he makes $5 million a year. You're like, oh, well, huh, good for him. Yeah.
Huh. It seems weird. Right? There's like a weird, you don't,
it's still not good. Even though you know what it is for us who are older,
it's subversive. Yes. For guys that are our age, it's subversive.
It's we don't trust it. We don't like it. We don't understand it.
And it scares us a little bit because it's also reminds us of our own
mortality.
We're also brainwashed the thing in the video games are for losing that. So, so,
so we have a, we have an stereotypical idea of what a field game player is,
all that stuff. So, so for older people, I'm, I'm feeling,
I feel left out. I don't understand it. Uh, and I, uh,
and I feel like they're being bad and they should listen to me.
Whereas chess is noble. Well, chess is someone playing chess. That's noble,
sexual special. You find out someone who's really good at chess. Like, okay.
Is impressive. They can orient. They can think deeply.
If a girl could be TJ beat your at chess,
I dated a girl once she was really good at chess. So humiliating.
Shut me down.